[laughs]
Summer uniform time!
It’s been
super muggy lately too.
These short sleeves
are just so much breezier.
I suppose.
‐ [boom]
‐ [groans]
[thunder rumbles]
[Japanese music playing]
Relationship advice? From me?
Yeah. I’m really stuck,
and I have no idea what to do.
I heard the student council
gives great advice
on this sort of thing.
You’re kind of the only person
I can turn to.
Fair enough.
The president often says
that lending an ear
to students’ concerns
is just another duty
that comes with being
in the student council.
[brush clatters]
So tell me,
what exactly is the issue?
I want to break up
with my boyfriend
without hurting
his feelings too much.
[clatters]
Ugh.
Thought she’d still be
in the honeymoon phase,
but I guess she’s
already sick of him.
Boyfriend advice. Right.
It’s no secret
how popular you are,
so I bet you have
all kinds of...
The only problem of course
is that I’ve never
actually dated before,
so how am I supposed
to help this girl?
[sighs]
Talk about pressure.
However, once a Shinomiya
has decided
to accept responsibility,
they see it through to the end,
no matter what.
Backing out
just isn’t an option.
What makes you want to split?
Um, well...
the day he said he liked me
was really random.
‐ [Tsubasa grunts]
‐ [gasps]
I agreed to go out with him
in the heat of the moment,
but I honestly don’t know
that much about him.
I don’t really know
how to act around him either,
and it seems like we talk even
less now than we did before.
I feel really guilty about it.
So rather than go on like this,
I think we’re better off
breaking up.
[Shinomiya] Hmm.
That makes sense.
You two were strangers
until he asked you out.
I bet if I were in your shoes,
I’d feel the same way.
But it’s not because
you dislike him, is it?
Not at all.
I just don’t know if I can
describe my feelings for him
as romantic.
You know what I mean?
Okay. Why don’t you name
a few things about him
that you can’t help
but be charmed by.
Like his best traits?
That’s right.
Everybody possesses qualities
that make them stand out
in their own way.
For example, he could be
exceedingly smart
or one of the most honest men
you’ve ever met.
Maybe he’s a hard worker,
or maybe you just like
how kind he is
and that he can’t turn his back
on people in trouble.
Or how his glaring eyes
pierce your soul.
Glaring eyes sound like
a bad trait to me.
But they’re not!
The fact that he’s
so self‐conscious about it
makes them really‐‐[stammers]
So I take it that’s
some kind of kink of yours.
I’ve said too much.
But the only guy
who fits that description
that hangs out with you
would be...
That isn’t important.
We’re talking about you, not me.
If you manage to find
one good thing about him
and really appreciate it,
you’ll start to see
all the other wonderful traits
that make him who he is.
Next thing you know,
he’ll be living rent‐free
inside your head,
and the more
the two of you interact,
the more you’ll end up
falling for him.
Well, that’s just what
a friend of mine told me!
It’s not like I’m in love.
Um, if you say so.
She gave
a super‐in‐depth explanation,
I don’t feel that way
about anybody.
But based
on what you just said‐‐
I’m here, and I heard
every last word!
You did?
It’s no fair to have girl talk
and not invite me!
Especially when I have
the skills of an ace!
Love detective Chika is here!
[panting]
[Shinomiya] Why are you
so out of breath?
I was listening, but then
I had to make a mad dash
to the theater club so I
could borrow this cool hat.
So you have a boyfriend,
but you aren’t quite sure
how you feel about him.
‐ That right?
‐ Yeah.
It’s lucky for you
I happened to come along, then.
Love’s gone missing, and I
won’t rest until I find it.
‐ Um...
‐ Okay.
I want you to picture
your boyfriend
macking hard on another girl
right in front of you.
What’s the point of this?
Just humor me a sec, ’kay?
[sighs]
[Kashiwagi] I’m sad.
[Shinomiya] I’m mad.
Mad. Mad. Mad. Mad.
I don’t like the way
that thought makes me feel.
‐ I bet.
‐ [gasps]
That’s jealousy, girls.
You don’t like the thought
of him being with someone else,
because you want him
all for yourself.
‐ [gasps]
And the more upset you get,
the more
in love with him you are!
Oh?
‐ Case closed.
‐ No, it can’t be.
You actually do
have feelings for him.
They just aren’t that deep yet.
Keep in mind this isn’t
something you have to rush.
Got it.
I was worried that I
might just be a cold person
for not returning his feelings,
especially since his confession
seemed so heartfelt.
‐ I’m glad.
‐ [gasps]
Case closed! They may be weak,
but I do have feelings for him!
Chika’s talking her into it.
[slow motion] So then
how do you think I should...
It’s not too late. I can still
give her some advice myself.
Good question.
And I have an answer.
This is a perfect time
to put the Romeo and Juliet
effect to the test.
[both] Romeo and Juliet effect?
[Shinomiya]
Those star‐crossed lovers
faced countless obstacles,
but their misfortune only served
to deepen the bond they shared,
proving that a common enemy
can bring people closer.
[Kashiwagi]
A common enemy? Uh...
It doesn’t have to be a person.
A metaphorical foe
would work just as well.
Yeah, I don’t think
we have one of those.
‐ But you do!
‐ [both gasp]
We all do!
There’s a mighty enemy
that we all must fight together!
[gasps] Who is it?
‐ [drumroll]
‐ I’ll tell you.
It’s our society!
[gasps] But how?
Never‐ending war,
exploitation of the poor...
[Shinomiya] Hang on. I was
thinking something minor,
like a test or anxiety.
I see now.
So the two of us should rebel
against this corrupt society.
That right?
[Shinomiya]
I wouldn’t recommend it, no!
In that case, I better go
and let him know the plan!
‐ You go, girl!
‐ Wait! Please come back.
‐ [door closes]
‐ [gags]
[Fujiwara grunts]
Fujiwara, they’re gonna
become antisocial deviants,
and it’s all our fault! [gasps]
Stop worrying so much.
[street chatter]
Every bit helps!
Please spare your time
or your change!
Yes, please.
Please donate!
It’s for a good cause!
[Fujiwara] So both of them
are already into philanthropy.
Huh. Who knew?
Pretty cool when things
work out like that.
They’re spreading
peace and love.
And you know what?
I think that might be
the ultimate way
to rebel against society.
Please don’t talk. [gasps]
‐ Thank you.
‐ I know him.
Her boyfriend is the guy
who asked the president
for advice.
[chuckles]
[gasps]
Huh?
‐ President?
‐ [gasps]
Shi... nomiya.
What are you doing here?
Oh. Well, they came to me
asking for permission
to fund‐raise off campus.
And I could tell
this wasn’t just something
they thought
they’d do on a whim.
‐ [both] Please donate!
‐ They lack experience,
but they’re passionate.
Such drive,
I can’t help but support it.
The funny thing is
I’m just as inexperienced
as they are.
[giggles]
There’s another one
of those traits.
[narrator] Results
for today’s battle,
Kaguya loses.
[grunts]
[groans]
[groaning]
‐ [sighs]
‐ [narrator] He sucks at sports.
I was so close that time!
There’s no denying
that Shirogane excels
when it comes to academics,
but the same can’t be said
for athletics.
To be blunt, he’s trash.
He’s delivered newspapers
for years
and works as a mover
in the summer.
Plus he rides his bike
15 kilometers to school
every day.
He’s in great physical shape.
‐ But that isn’t the problem.
‐ [yelps]
His alarming
lack of coordination is.
If the student body found out,
his reputation
would be forever tarnished,
so the man constantly trains.
We have volleyball
in gym next week.
I’ve gotta get good enough to
be considered average by then.
’Cause if I don’t...
Try and be serious, dude.
Eh, looks more
like a dying alpaca
‐ than the president.
‐ Yeah.
Now that you mention it,
he kind of does.
[gasps]
You really are quite cute.
No!
[yelps] Ouch!
[groans]
Why can’t I do it?!
You, uh, doing okay there, Prez?
Yeah, I’ll be all right.
F‐Fujiwara?!
[gasps] Why are you here?
I left something in the gym,
this thingie.
Oh, no.
How much did she see?!
‐ [screaming]
‐ It’s over.
My status as the multitalented
President Shirogane is no more.
People will no longer think
that I effortlessly excel
at literally
everything I try to do!
Are you studying?
But what for?
‐ This sucks.
‐ [stammers]
[laughs]
Huh?
Balls are so fun!
Actually, her opinion of me
isn’t all that damaging.
Did you know that we’re
starting volleyball soon?
I wanted to brush up my skills,
so I reserved the gym.
My serve still needs
a little work.
Ah, that’s why you’re here.
I could teach you
how to serve if you want.
Eh, come on.
Don’t offer to teach me
something you can’t do yourself.
And what makes you think
that I can’t do it myself?
Serve!
See?
No! Why?!
That was a textbook serve!
It was perfect!
You like it?
I had no idea you possessed
such a special skill.
I try.
I bet if I was your teacher,
you would improve
in no time at all.
[grumbles]
You know, I might
just agree to do it
if a certain sourpuss
said the magic word.
[murmurs]
Please.
I‐I need your help, Fujiwara.
For sure.
‐ Was that so hard?
‐ [groans]
I’m gonna need to see what I’m
working with before we start.
Go ahead and
do a few serves, ’kay?
Sure.
Huh?
‐ [grunts]
‐ Hmm?
[winces]
[squeaks]
Why, though?
I don’t understand.
That makes two of us.
I aim for the ball
and promptly smack my own face.
And if I try not to,
my timing gets way off.
This is the worst kind
of deadlock.
Hmm? Oh, sure is.
First of all, you need to keep
your eyes open when you serve.
I could have told you that much.
Glad we’re
on the same page, then.
Try again, but keep your eyes
wide open this time.
Don’t see what difference
it’ll make, but sure.
[grunts]
[yells]
[sighs] See?
Nothing changed.
’Cause they were closed!
‐ [winces]
‐ You kept them closed!
Do you honestly not know
what the inside of your eyelids
look like?!
You see? So don’t stand there
and lie straight to my face!
Oh, you’re right.
I’m just nervous!
Got a little case of the yips.
You’re so arrogant!
You know what I think?
For some bizarre reason,
your mind and your movements
don’t sync up.
Okay, start by just having you
jump with your eyes open.
I don’t plan to go easy on you,
so brace yourself.
[Shirogane] Let’s do it.
‐ [narrator] Training montage!
‐ [blows whistle]
1, 2, 3, 4...
‐ ...556, 557, 558...
‐ [clicking]
‐ 184, 185, 186...
‐ Focus,
and stop closing your eyes
when you jump.
[narrator] For three days,
she trained her lost cau‐‐
I mean pupil,
both morning and night.
‐ [ball bounces]
‐ [yelps]
[sighs] I’m sorry,
but you might
have reached your limit.
At least you can play as well
as the average bad player.
Considering
where you started from,
you’ve come
a super‐duper long way.
‐ I’m not done.
‐ Huh?
‐ [inspiring music playing]
‐ I can still do more.
Why are you pushing yourself
so hard over this?
Because I refuse to be seen
as a dork by anybody.
Because this is what it takes
to look cool.
[drop echoes]
[squeals]
Are you trying to look cool
to impress somebody you like?
Huh?! This isn’t about her!
It’s about my pride!
Ooh! So you do like someone!
‐ Who is it?
‐ Shut up.
Tell me! Pretty please?!
Leave me alone!
[grunts]
[shrieks]
You did it!
You actually did it!
Yeah, all thanks to you,
Fujiwara.
It was really, really hard,
but you powered through
until you won.
‐ We can finally move on.
‐ Huh?
I need you to teach me
how to toss and receive now.
‐ [squeals]
‐ [laughter echoes]
[grunting]
[cheering]
Oh, wow.
He’s so cool.
[cheering continues]
[sighs]
[Shinomiya sighs]
[gasps]
Are you okay?
See that boy?
I’m the one who raised him.
You what?
[narrator] Results
for today’s battle,
Shirogane and Fujiwara win.
[whistle blows]
[sighs]
[Shirogane] All right.
Ishigami finished dealing
with the aftermath
of that exchange party.
so our work for today
is pretty much done.
Let’s just call it.
Yay! You better ring up
your chauffeur
and tell him the good news.
‐ Actually...
‐ [gasps]
I was told that the car
got a flat tire,
so I was planning to walk home.
[gasps] Wh‐What if
you get kidnapped?
It’s much easier to get rid
of evidence on a rainy day.
Please don’t put thoughts
like that in my head.
I would be happy
to walk you home,
but I have to take care
of something.
[Shirogane] Shinomiya’s
walking home in this?
Wait. That gives me an idea.
[narrator]
It’s the rainy season,
which means umbrella sharing.
The umbrella is a cover
from the rain and an excuse
to close the distance
between two shoulders.
Even the gloomiest time of year
has its silver linings.
[Shinomiya] What nonsense.
Pathetically huddling together
in the sad hope that they
might bump shoulders.
Sharing an umbrella in itself
has no appeal to me,
but I do appreciate
the implication.
[narrator] In young love,
the magic of summer
inspires both fear and awe.
Everyone wants to spend their
vacation with a sweetheart.
In hopes of securing a partner
before school ends,
the students are busy
scrutinizing potential
relationship candidates.
‐ [woman vocalizing]
‐ [gasps]
Sharing an umbrella
is a subtle way
to become more intimate
with someone.
It’s also a subtle way
of telling any observer
to back the hell off
’cause this one’s taken.
[Shirogane]
It’s really coming down.
[Shinomiya] Yes. It wasn’t
raining at all this morning.
[narrator] There’s
pretty much one path
which leads
to sharing an umbrella.
First, person A is unprepared
for the change in weather.
Then person B
observes the dilemma
and offers to share.
For person B to make a move,
person A has to first admit
that they forgot an umbrella.
However...
‐ Shoot.
‐ Looks like...
[both] ...I left
my umbrella at home.
[narrator] Plot twist!
This tradition begins
with one person
forgetting an umbrella
and making it known.
But if both person A and B
happen to forget,
there’s no umbrella to share,
just two people
standing in the rain,
feeling very, very stupid.
So you forgot your umbrella
too, Shinomiya?
Yes. Must have slipped my mind
since I usually get picked up.
What’s your excuse?
Oh, I didn’t check
the weather forecast.
The storm kinda came
out of nowhere, huh?
[both laughing]
[narrator]
They’re both full of it.
With the power of X‐ray vision,
you can clearly see
the folding umbrellas
in their bags.
[Shirogane] Damn it.
Should I give myself away
and tell her I have one now?
How exactly
would that play out?
[Shinomiya] Oh, my.
You wanted to get
under my umbrella so badly,
you lied
about not having yours?
How interesting.
You really are quite cute.
‐ [Shirogane] I can’t.
‐ [narrator] No, he can’t.
Taking the umbrella out now
would expose
his intentional lie.
It would also leave him
with little choice
but to offer to share it
with Kaguya,
a clear and total defeat.
[Shirogane] Wait. Isn’t
her house full of servants?
If there was car trouble,
one of them
would have packed her
an umbrella for sure.
No way it would have
slipped all their minds.
I’m onto you, President.
You have an umbrella tucked
away somewhere in that bag.
You lied
because you were hoping
I’d offer to share mine
with you.
[narrator]
In this dire situation,
the only way out is to expose
your opponent’s lie.
I’ve gotta say...
seems like an odd coincidence.
[narrator] Shirogane
makes the first move.
First your car gets a flat
on a rainy day.
Then you, the most meticulous
planner I’ve ever met,
forgets to pack an umbrella?
It’s so odd, in fact,
that it’s almost
hard to believe.
What are you trying to say?
Oh, nothing.
I don’t have
enough information.
Should I make a gamble?
You plan ahead just as much
as I do, if not more.
‐ What?
‐ Earlier you mentioned
that you didn’t check
the weather forecast
on today, of all days.
That strikes me as odd.
I’m failing to see how.
I have my off days,
like anyone else.
Yes, but you typically ride
your bike to school, don’t you?
Yeah. So?
So today you chose
to take the train instead.
[winces]
I passed by
the bike rack earlier,
and your bike
was nowhere to be found.
No.
Which isn’t surprising.
You made a rational choice.
Of course you’d take the train
on a day like this.
Who wants to ride their bike
in the rain?
The only problem
is that you said
you missed the weather forecast.
But if that’s true,
then what made you decide
to take the train today,
of all days?
The truth is...
[water splashing]
you saw that forecast.
Of course you saw.
‐ [thunder crashes]
‐ [chuckles]
[narrator] The difference
in preparation...
Is it possible
you just think you forgot it
because you
didn’t dig deep enough?
I know.
Why don’t you double‐check
and give that bag of yours
one more look?
[narrator] The benefits
of advance preparation
are tremendous.
Shirogane devised
his umbrella plan
within the last hour,
whereas Kaguya confirmed
the weather report,
reinforced it with prayer,
used an awl to pierce
the tire of her family car,
and checked the bike rack.
All that prep work
has given her a massive lead.
[narrator]
She predicted everything.
You’re mine, President.
[sighs] I guess I have no choice
but to get soaked to the bone.
Too bad.
[growls]
You forgot your umbrella?
What a bummer!
[gasps]
Take mine. I have
a spare in the classroom,
so this one is all yours.
[stammers]
Try to plan ahead
for stuff like this next time!
I won’t always
be around to save you.
Well, see you tomorrow.
[murmurs]
[shrieks]
I had him! Victory was
so close I could taste it!
Why does that girl
always ruin everything?!
[gasps]
Now that it’s come to this...
[murmurs]
‐ You take it.
‐ Eh?
You said you didn’t
have one with you.
Well, now you do. Here!
Eh? Wait.
Fujiwara gave it to you, though.
I’m subletting it.
Look, Shinomiya...
[murmuring]
[sighs] Fine.
How about if I just...
borrow half of it?
Eh?
[sighs]
Yeah, why not?
Half sounds good.
[narrator] Results
for today’s battle,
it’s a draw.
[Japanese music playing]
[wind blowing]
[buttons clicking]
[clicking stops]